>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief".
About 10 years ago,
I had an author
on my program talking
about the Bilderberg Group.
We'll get into exactly
what that group is
and how they try to manipulate
and control this planet.
The book was called "The True
Story of the Bilderberg Group.
The author was Daniel Estulin.
And this book took off
like a rocket ship,
sold 7.2 million copies,
and people are still
talking about it.
It's now evolved into a movie,
and we'll talk about that too.
But Daniel, it's good
to see you in the flesh.
>>DANIEL ESTULIN: It's amazing
to finally actually meet you
after so many times that you and
I have talked on radio shows.
And now, we're
here in the studio.
It's great to be here.
Thank you for the invitation.
>>NOORY: I remember when we did
that show, the calls that you
got from people who were
so concerned about what
was happening on this planet.
How did you even get into
investigating the Bilderberg
Group?
>>ESTULIN: I was coming out
of the intelligence service.
And I basically didn't really
know what to do with myself.
That was about 2003 or so.
And I needed to make money,
because I needed to eat,
like everyone else.
And I thought, you know,
I knew a lot of stuff.
I had access to a
lot of documents.
I could write a
book about something
interesting enough for people
to get their teeth into it.
It was right about the time
when Dan Brown put out his book
on "The Da Vinci Code."
Bilderberg has nothing to
do with the Da Vinci Code,
but it's the whole
idea that there
is a power behind the
scenes, the mystery
behind the mystery that could
be very, very old or not so old.
But the fact is, is that
it actually takes people
into the world beyond their
common everyday understanding.
And I had-- initially,
I wanted to write a book
the Pinay Circle,
which is another far
more secretive organization
than Bilderberg.
But there wasn't
enough information--
documents and papers and
photographs which actually
showed--
>>NOORY: They're pretty private.
>>ESTULIN: They're
very private, more so
than the build Bilderbergers.
But as far as
Bilderberg is concerned,
the Russian intelligence
had always a lot
of interest in
this organization,
going back to the
first meeting in 1954.
And I thought, I
can do this book.
We had a lot of information,
a lot of documents.
So we can actually
make people believe
that these people are real.
It's not some kind of a
wacky conspiracy theory.
>>NOORY: Well,
and they are real.
And they do meet every year.
Lately, Daniel, they've
been publicizing
where they're meeting.
Why?
>>ESTULIN: I think--
you know, humbly say,
I think I have
something to do with it.
>>NOORY: You took the
book and turned it
into a movie called
"Bilderberg, the Movie."
>>ESTULIN: Exactly.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> Yes, we can win this war.
But the first step necessary
for actually winning
is to know what the war is.
>> Imagine a private club where
presidents, prime ministers,
international bankers, and
generals rubbed shoulders
and were the people running
the wars, the markets,
and governments, say what
they never say in public.
>> Under the guise of
saving banking institutions,
which they saved temporarily,
they were effectively taking
unpayable debt-- huge quantities
of debt and transferring them
from private corporations
to governments.
>> Well, the primary goal
is to defend the status
of the unipolar world.
>> And the paradox
of this project,
of this supranational
European project,
is the least popular it
becomes with the people,
the bigger mess it creates,
the more power they get
at the center.
>> It's a war against a
concept of man, which is evil.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Exciting
trailer, Daniel.
>>ESTULIN: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How does
the Bilderberg Group
differ from the United Nations?
>>ESTULIN: Bilderberg is-- as an
organization, was founded back
in 1954, although the
initial impetus to get
this group of politicians,
members of the elitist circles
together goes back
to 1948 to 1949.
Bilderberg basically is
your form NATO alliance.
It's Western Europe, Canada,
and the United States.
There are other
organizations, such as Council
on Foreign Relations goes back
to the early 1920s, their roots
as Chatham House
and the Roundtable.
That's the British
elitist circles.
Then you have the
Trilateral Commission
founded by David Rockefeller
and Zbigniew Brzezinski in 1973.
You have the [INAUDIBLE] Circle.
You have The Bohemian Grove.
You have think tanks from
[INAUDIBLE] foundations.
There were a whole slew of these
organizations working together
to basically move forward
a very particular agenda.
That agenda is the liberal
banking financier agenda.
You can also describe
it as the concept
of the idea of infinite growth
on a finite planet, something
that doesn't work.
And we're seeing the
consequences of that today.
But again, Bilderberg is one
of many of these nodes working
together to push forward a
very particular agenda, which
has nothing to do
with the interests
of 99.9% of the population.
>>NOORY: Well, I was going
to say, on the face of it,
just on the outside
looking in, it
sounds like a
wonderful idea, a group
of people getting
together to try to better
mankind and this planet.
But that's not necessarily
the case, is it?
>>ESTULIN: It's not the case.
The whole idea-- again,
you can rephrase it.
You can talk about the
central banking warfare model.
That's what, basically,
these people represent.
And Bilderberg-- when
you go back to 1954,
it's basically-- it's fused
the winners and the losers
in the Second World War.
On the one hand, you
have the winners.
You had the allies.
You had Britain.
You had France.
You had the United States.
You had Canada.
And you had the losers, You
had Germany and the Vatican.
You had Italy.
Fuse them together to
make a common front
against the new socialist bloc
led by the Soviet Union post
World War II.
And that's what Bilderberg and
all these other organizations
are about.
It's not about one world
government, new world order.
It's about one world
company limited corporations
that have a lot more power than
any government on the planet.
And the whole idea
behind that was actually
proposed by George Ball, who was
the Undersecretary for Economic
Affairs, and JFK.
And Johnson, back in
the 1968 Bilderberg
meeting in Mont Tremblant
in Canada, when he said--
and I loosely paraphrase-- how
can we create corporations that
can give orders to governments?
And that basically--
what Bilderberg is,
is one of these nodes.
It's not a secret society.
A lot of people--
because again, one of the things
that happened with this book
is we've always
known, we've always
seen coup d'etats,
changes of governments,
the financial crisis.
All history--
>>NOORY: That has
and will happen.
>>ESTULIN: It has
always happened.
But people always talk
about the Jews, the Masons,
the Illuminati, the
Jewish Masonic conspiracy,
they-- whoever
these "they" were.
And then suddenly, my book on
the Bilderberg Group comes out,
and there's photographs
and documents,
as you saw on the film.
And these "they" have a name.
And they have a face
and their documents
and their deliberations.
And we know what these
people were up to.
And we know who founded them.
Like for example, one
of the early meetings,
1954 through 1957, they're, in
part-- not fully, but in part--
funded by--
financed by the
CIA, so again, as
part of this greater
European project.
So there's a history
behind these secret private
organizations.
And we can actually,
with this book,
show how this whole thing
was put together going
back quite a bit in the past.
And then suddenly, this quote,
unquote conspiracy theory
is no longer a conspiracy
theory but a conspiracy.
>>NOORY: It's the real deal.
>>ESTULIN: Exactly.
It's a real deal.
But it's-- again, it's a node of
all these other organizations,
think tanks, foundations who
work together towards moving
forward a very
particular agenda,
which has very little to do
with the interests or the needs
of 99% of the
world's population.
>>NOORY: How many
members are there?
And who are they?
>>ESTULIN: Anywhere from
110 to about 130, 135.
They usually break up into--
it's a three-day meeting--
Thursday, Friday, Saturday.
They break up into four
or five different groups
of about 20 people each
to make it manageable.
That's why you don't
have more than 130.
You have representatives,
a lot of them
we already know as a result of--
>>NOORY: We know who they are?
Give us a couple names.
>>ESTULIN: Rockefeller,
Kissinger, Brzezinski--
>>NOORY: Clinton.
>>ESTULIN: --Henry Kravis,
Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton.
These are some of the people
who have come to these meetings.
>>NOORY: Is our current
president part of the group
yet?
>>ESTULIN: He's not
part of the group.
He's the enemy of these
liberal banking financiers.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>ESTULIN: He could
never be part--
>>NOORY: They don't
want him in there?
>>ESTULIN: He couldn't
be part of the group.
He represents the
alternative model, just
like Silvio Berlusconi.
The former prime minister
of Italy is no longer--
>>NOORY: He's out.
>>ESTULIN: --part of the group.
He's out, but he was
never part of the group.
You have to be, to a certain
point, a globalist financier
to be part of the
Bilderberg elite.
Or someone who could become
one in the near future
is a potential
member of this group.
You have European commissioners.
You have European
high-ranking politicians,
the president of
European Central Bank,
of General Reserve, of
of International Monetary
Fund, the World Bank--
they always attend these
meetings for obvious reasons--
as I said, high-ranking
commissioners,
high-ranking representatives
of the British elite circles.
Sitting presidents never
come to these meetings.
So Bill Clinton came before
he became president in 1991.
At that meeting
in Baden-Baden, I
believe, in Germany, David
Rockefeller explained to him
what NAFTA was all about.
And he asked him, if he
were to become president,
would he support it?
And Clinton said to him, is
that important to you, David?
And he said, of course it is.
And he shook his hand.
And Rockefeller said, to him
thank you, Mr. President.
OK?
>>NOORY: Interesting how
powerful these people are.
>>ESTULIN: And
actually, Jim Tucker,
out of his book, Hillary
Clinton attended before-- well,
she was never president.
But she attended in
2006 meeting in Canada,
on the outskirts of Ottawa.
Barack Obama-- if you
remember that famous episode
where he just kind of
vanished off the airplane when
he was sitting on the tarmac.
That was also before.
It was in 2008 in
Chantilly, Virginia, before.
The meeting was held there.
Again, high-ranking banking
representatives-- people
from the International
Monetary Fund, World Bank, IBM,
Microsoft, Google, PayPal.
All of these
individuals go there,
because again, these
are the financier
banking elite
political circles who
represent a model,
which is based
on infinite growth
on a finite planet.
>>NOORY: Why isn't Russia and
China part of the Bilderberg
Group?
>>ESTULIN: Because
again, Bilderberg
is former NATO alliance.
It's Western Europe, Canada,
and the United States.
That's it.
Trilateral Commission
is Americas--
North, South America;
Europe; and Asia.
That's trilateral.
A few members from
Australia get in.
Almost no one ever
from Africa gets in.
The Council on Foreign
Relations is a brother or sister
organization to the Bilderberg.
That's an American organization.
You have a Council on Foreign
Relations in other countries
as well, regionally.
But again, one of the things
that we're seeing on the world
stage, as far as the
collapse of the world economy
we are witnessing as
we speak, is the fact
that this model, liberal
banking financier
model, which is based on the
concept of infinite growth
on a finite planet,
no longer works.
So all these organizations, the
Bilderbergers everybody else,
they're looking for a way out.
Because the model that they
represent is no longer viable.
And so Russia and
China, they have
to work together on
a supranational level
to come up with an
alternative model.
But what is interesting
about that--
it's not Russia or China.
It's not the United
States against Russia.
This is not chess.
Because the whole idea--
Brzezinski and Kissinger and
Rockefeller and all these
think tanks and
foundations talking
about the grand chessboard,
the game of chess between the--
it's not-- chess is
something that you
play between two players.
It's not between two players.
They are not countries
at war with each other.
They're global projects.
And as global projects, the
elite use a different game.
And that game is Bridge.
In a chess game, Russia and
China do not participate.
But in a global Bridge
game, which is a game,
card game played
by all elitist--
>>NOORY: Everybody's in.
>>ESTULIN: Exactly.
From the Queen of England
to George Soros to Buffet
to Winston Churchill,
they all loved
Bridge, because it's the most
amazing card game in the world,
as far as the Russian
intelligence, for example,
is concerned.
We use Bridge as a
way to understand
how these global projects
work and fit together
into a particular pattern.
And in that pattern,
both Russia and China
participate as
separate projects.
>>NOORY: Daniel, how does
the Bilderberg Group operate?
How does it function?
>>ESTULIN: It's an annual
meeting of anywhere
between 110 and 130 members.
What basically happens
is the United States
is the biggest member of
this Bilderberg alliance,
gets about a third
of the delegates.
Smaller countries, such as
Spain or Greece or Denmark,
they will get about
three delegates.
Usually, it's a
high-ranking politician,
a member of a media.
>>NOORY: Are they invited in?
>>ESTULIN: They're invited in.
You cannot buy your way.
It's not a lobby media
where you can actually
pay a certain amount of money
and buy your way into the--
>>NOORY: I mean, I've never
been asked to participate.
>>ESTULIN: I, unfortunately,
have not been either, George.
So we are in a very
exclusive company--
>>NOORY: Would you,
if they invited you?
>>ESTULIN: I would, simply
because I think it's--
not because I want to
be a part of Bilderberg
but because meeting
with intelligent people
is always a lot of fun.
Needless to say, as soon
as the meeting was over,
I'd come to your
show, and I'd give you
all the exclusive
information about what
these people talked about.
But still being there
as a fly on the wall,
listening to what
these people talk about
is always a lot of fun.
But going back to
your question--
120, 130 members.
They meet once a year.
Every country has--
I wouldn't call them a manager.
I would call it
a representative.
What they do is they
send, at the beginning
of the year, a list of
possible invitees, about 10,
15-member list
from each country.
There's a steering
committee, which
included people such as
Kissinger; as Zbigniew
Brzezinski; David Rockefeller,
when he was alive;
and so on and so forth.
And they basically decide
which individuals are
to be invited, which are not.
The decisions are
reached via consensus.
Nobody tells anybody what to do.
Everybody has to agree.
And there's--
>>NOORY: Is anybody
getting paid to run this?
>>ESTULIN: They don't get paid.
There are friends of
Bilderberg organizations
that finances part of it.
They don't need the money.
I mean, they've got the machine
with different-- between you
and I, we don't have the
machine that prints money.
They do.
So they can do
that kind of stuff.
But again, what's interesting,
it's done through consensus.
A lot of the times, they invite
not only one world globalists,
but also potential
opinion leaders who
might not be fully on board.
Through these meetings,
they try to convince them
that it might be a
good idea-- again,
it's not done as the mafia Cosa
Nostra would do their business.
>>NOORY: But close.
>>ESTULIN: I wouldn't
really say that.
Because again, the
idea is that there's
a lot of ways you can pressure
people into doing things.
And one of the reasons
people say to you,
[MUMBLING] things are they
talk about, it never comes out.
Because they're afraid
they're gonna get killed.
It's not some silly
conspiracy theory.
It's not for old geezers sitting
in a dark room holding hands,
staring at a crystal
ball, planning
the world's domination.
The world is a
very complex place.
What basically is
done-- if you come in
and you understand
the rules-- it's
called Chatham House rules,
meaning that you can listen.
You can take notes.
You can not reveal
anything which is
said within the organization.
>>NOORY: Or they do what,
burn you at the stake?
>>ESTULIN: No.
They don't need to do that.
They just ostracize you, meaning
that you are no longer invited
to important supranational,
non-government--
>>NOORY: You're out of the club.
>>ESTULIN: You're
out of the club.
And nobody wants to be out
of the club, especially
when you're in the
club for a long time,
meaning that anybody
can pick up the phone
and call any of the other
members anytime they wish.
So suddenly, when David
Rockefeller-- well,
he will never pick
up the phone again.
But any one of these
other individuals--
be it Henry Kissinger, be it
representatives of the European
Royalty--
when they no longer
answer your phone calls,
you know you're in trouble.
So again, you don't need
to worry about somebody
taking you physically out.
It's the fact is that
you'll be ostracized,
and for most of
these people, that's
far worse punishment
than getting killed.
>>NOORY: Well, the
film was incredible,
"Bilderberg the Movie."
>>ESTULIN: Thank you.
>>NOORY: It's up
on Gaia.com now.
>>ESTULIN: I'm very
grateful to Gaia.
You guys have a
special audience.
People-- knowledgeable people--
I mean, there's a lot of
other platforms out there.
And we had a lot of interest
from other platforms.
But the idea is I
didn't want for my film
to be just a piece of meat.
I wanted to be on a site
where people could go--
because Gaia is a community.
People who understand--
>>NOORY: And it's growing.
>>ESTULIN: And it's
a growing community--
people who understand what
the real world is like.
It's like you're stepping
through the glass
onto the other side into
a parallel universe.
And this is what I want.
I want my film to be somewhere
people who actually watch
it understand what it's
about, take that information,
and then distribute it amongst
their friends and friends.
And that's how we can save the
world against these people.
>>NOORY: Can we?
You think-- you
really believe we can?
They're strong, Daniel.
They're very, very strong.
>>ESTULIN: They are strong.
But again, the central
banking warfare model,
based on the concept of infinite
growth on a finite planet,
is dead, which means that the
financial system, it's over.
And they need an
alternative system. s
And the alternative system,
at present, doesn't exist.
There are ideas-- because again,
to come up with a new Bretton
Woods or to come up
with a new Yalta,
it's not something
that you whip up
in a corner store in 15 minutes.
You need at least
a couple of years
to get everybody on board.
And we don't have
a couple of years.
Because we have about a
year till the whole thing
collapses onto itself.
And then, we're going to be
living all back to "Mad Max."
>>NOORY: Just what we need.
>>ESTULIN: Or we're going to
be living in a world of "Blade
Runner" or
technologically advanced.
We're talking about
transhumanism.
Or we're talking going way
back to the idea of society--
>>NOORY: Is that
what the Bilderberg
Group is trying to prevent,
that "Mad Max" scenario?
>>ESTULIN: I think right
now, it's the survival.
Because their very
survival is at stake.
And it's not only
the Bilderbergers--
>>NOORY: So is ours.
>>ESTULIN: So is ours.
But again, they don't
think of us as people.
We are inferior, and then
just put an adjective.
>>NOORY: We're cattle.
>>ESTULIN: We're cattle.
So the idea is that
they need to survive.
Because again, at a
supranational level,
it's not a homogeneous group.
They're different groups, as--
just as we saw in
the United States
elections, different
groups supporting
different candidates.
When you're looking at it
on the supranational level
as far the-- from
the bird's eye view,
they're different groups
fighting for the survival.
Before, you had
enough for everybody.
There is no longer
And like in the film, "The
Highlander," only one group
can survive.
And their survival
depends on which
economic model is successful.
Because the current model,
which is based, again,
on infinite growth
on a finite planet,
central banking
warfare model is dead.
>>NOORY: Daniel, you have a
new book coming out in Spanish.
Eventually, it'll
be in English--
>>ESTULIN: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: --about the
phenomenon of 2016.
What has happened to this
planet, specifically the United
States, where people
are so frustrated, they
don't want the status quo?
So they're making as
many changes as they can,
hoping that something
different will come along.
How frustrated do you
believe the people are?
>>ESTULIN: I think
we could see that.
I mean, it's a planet
at war with itself.
And an organism at war
with itself cannot survive.
What
I do in my book, I don't look
at the current administration
as good or bad.
It's irrelevant.
Because I look at it as a
surgeon or a scientist who
finds a two million-year-old
body frozen in ice, who
looks at the individual
behind it-- who,
what, and how this individual
became the president,
and what that does to
the future of humanity.
For example,
Russian intelligence
knew back in 2012
that anybody linked
to the current liberal
banking financier model,
meaning Hillary
Clinton and that crowd,
could never be elected to
the White House in 2016.
>>NOORY: They knew that?
>>ESTULIN: They knew that?
And in fact, in 2014--
>>NOORY: Hillary
didn't know that.
>>ESTULIN: She didn't know that.
And I think she
still is fighting
It's like the old general who is
still fighting the First World
War.
Exactly.
But the point is that in 2014--
I can tell you the exact date.
It was on the 5th of
November in Dayton, Ohio.
>>NOORY: 2000--
>>ESTULIN: 2014.
It was the day of or the day
after the elections, the Senate
and Congress elections--
>>NOORY: The midterm--
>>ESTULIN: The midterm
elections, exactly.
High-ranking members
of what later
would become some of
the representatives
of the current administration
met with high-ranking members
of the Russian administration.
But it's not the
collusion that we're
seeing right now in the
mainstream media, the Twitter,
the Facebook, the elections.
It has nothing to do with that.
Two nuclear superpowers--
>>NOORY: And they have
the right to get together.
>>ESTULIN: Of course they do.
>>NOORY: My gosh, we need peace.
>>ESTULIN: Exactly.
So the two nuclear
superpowers, well the people
at a very high level, were
basically looking at ways
to make sure that this model--
again, liberal banking
financier model,
which was at the very
end of its cycle--
would not get in and
who would actually
get into the White House?
>>NOORY: They didn't know at
that time, did they, in 2014?
>>ESTULIN: The Russian
intelligence knew back in 2012.
They didn't know
exactly the individual.
But the profile--
>>NOORY: They knew the concept.
>>ESTULIN: They knew the
profile of the person who
would win the White House.
They actually had two persons.
One had the current president.
And then, they also
had Rand Paul as far
as the political spectrum.
But they thought he didn't
have enough business acumen.
So the model that they had
as the president in 2016
was exactly who actually
got into the White House.
And again, why?
Because anybody linked
to the liberal banking
financier model could
not win the presidency.
>>NOORY: Yet, it was close.
It was very, very close.
>>ESTULIN: It was Never
close, ever close.
>>NOORY: It looked close.
She had the popular vote.
He had the electoral college.
>>ESTULIN: Do you ever
follow WWE wrestling?
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: I've looked
at it in my day.
I'm not going to
publicly admit it.
We don't need to.
But again, it looks close.
But the whole game,
set and match--
>>NOORY: The winner
is already determined
in the dressing room, where
they talk to each other.
>>ESTULIN: It's scripted
before the game's played.
But the reason, again,
it's easy to understand,
that model is dead.
They needed a new model.
And what they are
doing right now--
and this is where Russia
and China come in.
They're looking
for an alternative.
And the alternative to this
liberal banking financier
model-- and Bilderberg is one
of the representatives of that
model--
is the dismantling
of countries--
in other words,
end of Westphalia.
Going back to 1648, the end
of countries, nation-states,
et cetera, et cetera, and the
creation of regional economic
blocs not unlike Europe, which
is a political union as well,
but strictly
economic-based blocs.
>>NOORY: Daniel, there's lots of
talk about how our election was
hacked by the Russians.
A professor of computer
science, J. Alex Halderman,
talks about the
possibility of how
that hack might have occurred.
>>J. ALEX HALDERMAN: I'm a
professor of computer science
and have spent the last 10 years
studying the electronic voting
systems that our
nation relies on.
My conclusion from
that work is that
our highly-computerized
election infrastructure
is vulnerable to
sabotage and even
to cyber attacks that
could change votes.
These realities risk
making our election
results more difficult for
the American people to trust.
I know America's voting
machines are vulnerable,
because my colleagues and I
have hacked them repeatedly
as part of a decade of research
studying the technology that
operates elections and learning
how to make it stronger.
We've created a tax that can
spread from machine to machine,
like a computer
virus, and silently
change election outcomes.
We've studied touch screen
and optical scan systems,
and in every single case,
we've found ways for attackers
to sabotage machines
and to steal votes.
These capabilities are
certainly within reach
for America's enemies.
As you know, states choose
their own voting technology.
And while some states are
doing well with security,
others are alarmingly
vulnerable.
This puts the entire
nation at risk.
In close elections,
an attacker can
probe the most
important swing states
or swing counties, find areas
with the weakest protection,
and strike there.
In a close election year,
changing a few votes
in key localities could be
enough to tip national results.
>>NOORY: Actually, Daniel,
kind of frightening.
Something we've talked
about on our radio show,
"Coast to Coast AM" for
years now with a person
by the name of Bev Harris,
who says that there are
dangers with electronic voting.
This professor, Dr.
Halderman, agrees with that
and admitted that
he and his group
hacked into election central
and did some changing
for his research purposes.
What's to prevent other
countries from doing the same?
>>ESTULIN: I don't think--
I mean, nothing.
He just said it.
Anybody, any country
could hack the system.
But from there to
Russians did it--
>>NOORY: Is it far-fetched?
>>ESTULIN: It's far-fetched
because the only thing
we've had during the last year,
since the last elections--
aside from thousands
of committees
meeting and deciding
if the Russians had
anything to do with it at all--
is the fact that Steele's report
has been totally discredited.
And William Binney
last week came out
and said the hack was internal.
That's what we do know.
And today, anybody who is
14 years old and relatively
capable on a computer-- because
kids today are far more capable
than most of us--
>>NOORY: They're good.
>>ESTULIN: --can
hack in a system
and make it look
as it actually went
through the Russian government.
>>NOORY: Well, then, we need to
go back to the old punch card
system.
>>ESTULIN: We may have to.
But again, you go back
to the 2000 elections,
you go back to the
2004 elections,
they were outright
stolen by the--
>>NOORY: 1960, Kennedy
stole the election.
I mean, there's no question that
he stole Illinois and Chicago
with votes with
help from the mob.
And they got it done.
And that was without
the electronics.
We didn't have
electronics in 1960.
>>ESTULIN: Not only in the
United States-- in Russia,
the last parliamentary
elections in Russia last year,
they were stolen by
Russia's party led
by Putin and Medvedev,
not only was it stolen,
where you had a
minimum 10% swing.
It was 150% swing, I mean,
when the Russians steal,
they steal big.
>>NOORY: They go big.
So what do we do about all this?
>>ESTULIN: I don't know.
>>NOORY: I mean, are we stuck
with this kind of possibility?
>>ESTULIN: I think it
goes back to the fact,
as the elitist circle said--
going back to Churchill
and beyond--
you can't leave in the
hands of the populace
the important decisions,
like electing presidents
and prime ministers of nations.
Because again, these are the
people who run the world.
Because no president or prime
minister anywhere in the world
works for the people, for the
nation-state that elects them.
They represent
the elite circles.
And that's what they do.
And so you cannot leave
these decisions in the hands
of people who would actually
vote for somebody who is going
to represent their interests.
And that's why you
have hacks, and that's
why you have elections stolen,
not only in the United States,
everywhere in the world.
>>NOORY: We're having
all kinds of things
happen on this
planet these days.
Things are changing like crazy--
problems with North Korea,
big changes in Zimbabwe,
changes in Venezuela,
Syria's still up in arms.
Is it out of control?
>>ESTULIN: On one level, it is.
But again, if you understand the
background, the fact that it's
a war for survival between
two systems which can never
get along, which is the
liberal banking finance
system and an alternative
group behind the current
administration,
then all this stuff
is being put into perspective.
For example, you see a lot
of articles and opinions
from very credible
individuals saying
this individual, the current
president, he's insane.
He's picking a fight with
Canada, our closest ally.
He's doing the
same with Germany.
But again, it's
easy to understand
if you understand that
all of these people
are his enemies, because they
represent the liberal financier
banking elite circles who
want them out of power
and destroyed.
So what you're seeing
right now, again, it's
a fight for survival
between two models--
one, liberal banking
financier model, and the other
yet to be born,
which surely is going
to be based on the idea
of these economic regions,
where each region is going
to have its own currency.
They're going to work
together on a global stage.
And again, one of
the objectives,
one of the things
we're seeing right now
is the dismantling of
the petrodollar system
which is why you
have Saudi Arabia--
>>NOORY: Which is
backed by our dollar.
>>ESTULIN: But again, the
current administration, they
need to get rid of the
petrodollar system.
They're dismantling
it on purpose.
Because Bretton Woods,
International Monetary Fund,
the World Bank--
all of these
institutions represent
that model, which is dead.
And so they're
doing it on purpose.
And all these people who are
saying that Saudi Arabia,
they're actually working against
the interests of the United
States, because Americans,
they want uni-polar world,
and these people want to
join a multi-polar world.
They want to join--
they're not doing that.
They're part and parcel of
this effort-- global effort
to dismantle the system and
create a parallel system which
has nothing to do with
the petrodollar model,
based on this very concrete
idea of Bretton Woods.
Because Bretton Woods people are
saying, Bretton Woods is dead.
It's not, because International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank,
the Bretton Woods institution,
so the model itself, is alive.
It's dead, but it's alive.
And they're trying to
make sure that they create
a new model which still is
not up and running, because it
takes time for that model
to be actually put together.
As I said, new Bretton Woods,
a new Yalta takes time.
>>NOORY: How does China
fit into this equation?
>>ESTULIN: There are
six global projects.
Again, it's not countries.
It's not the United
States against Russia,
against China, against
Canada or England.
Because in this, if
it were countries,
you couldn't explain Democrats
against Republicans, Antifa,
Black Lives Matter against
the police or the government.
You couldn't explain
those things.
So they're not countries.
They're global projects.
And there are currently six
global projects, or seven.
But the Vatican, beginning 2012,
was taking out [INAUDIBLE]..
And then the coups d'etat,
where the black pope,
the Jesuit pope took
over from Benedict XVI.
So now, you have
six global projects.
One is called the New Babylon.
It's New York.
It's liberal backing financier
model, whose representative, up
until now, was Hillary Clinton.
The other global
project is London.
We can call it New Jerusalem.
And that's the Hasidic
Jews, Kabbalists, the Queen,
the Rothschilds.
Are
The third project
is Grand Europe,
which is European
Union plus the Vatican.
A fourth is Grand Eurasia,
with the epicenter in Moscow.
The fifth is Datun, China.
And the sixth is the Caliphate.
Up until now, this caliphate
was Black Caliphate,
Wahhabi Caliphate.
That caliphate lost, and a
new caliphate is being born--
Red Caliphate, Sufi Caliphate
with the capital in Damascus.
What I mean by
these global project
is they're not six projects
fighting individually.
As I said to your
earlier interview--
>>NOORY: Well,
they seem they are.
>>ESTULIN: They're not.
Because the game is not chess.
Because in a chess
game, you couldn't
fit six global players.
There are only two
players involved.
And that's why Brzezinski,
in a very coy manner
in his great book,
"Grand Chessboard,"
it's a great deception
making us believe
that the world plays chess.
We don't play chess.
The elite play Bridge.
And you can play Bridge
with four or six players,
because you have
52 cards, which you
can divide into four players.
Everybody gets 13.
Or if you have six players--
>>NOORY: I'm not a Bridge
player, by the way.
I'm more of a chess player.
>>ESTULIN: Me too.
But it's a very good game.
And you need it to understand
the geopolitics of the world.
And you can have six players.
Simply have 52 cards,
plus the two jokers.
OK, you have 54 cards,
and you can divide it
in nine cards each player.
And these are projects
who will play in teams.
For example, London, the
New Jerusalem, up until now,
they played who was
their team member?
The Black Caliphate.
They played together.
You have a liberal banking
financier elite in New York,
and they played with China
as a project together.
The Russians, which aren't
Russians, but Eurasia--
they're playing, up to a
certain point, with Europe.
But it all depends on the
geopolitics of the world
from here on out, over
the next year or so,
to see how these projects
are going to come out.
Because the British,
they called for the game,
but the Black Caliphate lost.
So now, they need a new partner.
And it depends--
it remains to be
seen how these agreements
are going to be worked out.
Because the logical
conclusion for the Chinese
and the Russians
to work together.
OK, China, Datun,
Russia, great Eurasia,
for them to work together.
But for that to happen, a lot
of other things need to happen.
Because China, historically--
if you go back traditionally
historically-- is the
epicenter of the universe.
>>NOORY: Well, since
you bring up China,
there's talk about
the new globalization,
the New Silk Road.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: China calls it
the project of the century.
As the West steps back
from global leadership,
this is China stepping
forward, remaking
the map of the global economy.
With no other country
offering a big idea right now,
this is the most ambitious
bid to shape our century.
>> [SPEAKING CHINESE]
>>TRANSLATOR: I'm under
a lot of pressure.
>>NARRATOR: A massive
rollout of infrastructure
built by China to drive trade
across more than 60 countries.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>TRANSLATOR: It's
like a promised land.
>>NARRATOR: China's president
claims it's a win-win for all.
>>TRANSLATOR: We will not
result to outdated geopolitical
maneuvering.
[APPLAUSE]
>>NARRATOR: Critics say the
only winner will be China.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>TRANSLATOR: The Chinese
have done nothing.
>>NARRATOR: I'm setting out on
a 7,000-mile journey to meet
the people of the New Silk
Road and understand how it will
change their lives
and our world.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: How will it
change our lives, Daniel?
>>ESTULIN: China is
the new globalization.
The American flag of
globalization has fallen.
China's picked it up.
Now, China is the new
[INAUDIBLE] One Belt One Road
>>NOORY: In 30 years--
dramatic.
>>ESTULIN: One belt
is a land route--
16 countries-- 12
Muslim, four Orthodox.
One road is Maritime
over 40 countries.
One of the ideas, especially
through the Maritime route,
is to push the United States
away from any areas of interest
to the Chinese, and
the United States
back towards this
area of influence,
which is North America.
But China has always
been a trinity.
So in other words,
One Belt and One road
needs another point for China,
for the president, Xi Jinping,
to become emperor.
And for him to become
emperor, they need Russia.
>>NOORY: Is that he wants?
>>ESTULIN: And they need
the mandate of the skies,
as they call in Chinese.
And this mandate can
only come through Russia.
Because both One Belt and One
Road are based on interests--
political, military,
and economic interests.
And the only way
that President, soon
to become emperor, Xi
Jinping, can be consecrated
as the new emperor is
for Russia to be involved
on the point of values.
And this is the new [INAUDIBLE]
part of this One Belt One road
initiative, and that's why the
two countries are working very,
very close together
to try to work out
some kind of an agreement.
It's not easy, because
again, Russia and China,
we are not friends.
It's a myth.
We have never been friends.
>>NOORY: It's a
business relationship.
>>ESTULIN: To a certain point,
a real business relationship
is between the United
States and China.
That's a $600 billion business.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ESTULIN: Russia-China, that's
a $60 billion dollar business.
And don't forget, George, --
Russian nuclear missiles not
only point at Washington.
They also point at Beijing.
And there is a lot of
friction and conflict
between the two countries.
China wants to be
recognized by Russia
as the economic
powerhouse, superpower.
And the Russians yearn for
the Chinese to recognize them
as a nuclear and military
superpower, which
Russia, with every passing
day, is becoming less and less
so of a military power.
And they certainly, we are third
world, or even fourth world,
as far as economic
power is concerned.
There is a lot at stake.
But again, the only way that
this can actually play itself
out beginning, especially
now after the 19th Communist
Congress of the Chinese
Communist Party,
is for these sites to
work out an agreement.
The Russians, the Chinese
are looking for ways
to join forces.
It's going to be
very difficult--
>>NOORY: What's that
common denominator?
>>ESTULIN: The
common denominator
is survival of the fittest.
Because again, you need
an alternative model.
That model is not liberal
banking financier model
based on infinite growth.
That is dead.
A new model has to come out.
And that model this dismantling
of countries and creation
of economic regions, which
means that Russia, most likely,
is going to be divided in half,
traditionally, by the Euros.
Western Russia,
one economic bloc;
Russia, Turkey, Iran,
the Balkans, Syria,
and ex-soviet Turkish
speaking countries;
and then the eastern part would
join, the Koreas and probably
Japan.
Because if Japan joined China,
you'd be completely absorbed.
>>NOORY: How realistic is this?
>>ESTULIN: It is very realistic.
Because again, the system--
one system is dead.
They're looking for
an alternative system.
And it's already on the table
at a supranational level
between countries.
If you remember,
not too long ago--
it was in May of this year--
Henry Kissinger met with Putin.
He met with the current
administration the United
States.
And he also met with
President Xi Jinping.
And Henry Kissinger is a
very important representative
of the--
the supranational elite circles.
Exactly.
So you cannot take these
kinds of meetings lightly.
They have a very
important role to play
on the geopolitical
behind-the-scenes agenda
of these elite circles.
But again, a lot is left
to be said and done.
And one of the reasons why
the current administration--
going back to what
I said before--
is going after Canada,
dismantling transatlantic
and transpacific agreements,
North American Free Trade
agreements, because these
agreements are part and parcel
of the old liberal
banking financier
model based on infinite
growth on a finite planet.
And again, the whole idea--
we've had three crises,
historically, over
the past 2,000
years which changed completely
the face of society.
One, between the fourth
and the sixth century
when the entire elite circles
in the Mediterranean Basin
were wiped out.
The next crisis, within the
16th and the 17th century,
we had the same effect,
except the elite survived.
Because there was a vertical
structure-based feudal
structure on the
owners and the slaves.
And now, we are living
the end of capitalism.
Because capitalism is dead.
It is based on the idea
of infinite growth.
>>NOORY: You think
it's all over, huh?
>>ESTULIN: It has to be.
Because again, in
1991 when the Soviet
Union, the socialist
alternative model collapsed,
we were left with one
model for the entire world.
And that model lasted
less than a decade.
Because in the year 2000,
we had the dot-com bubble.
In 2008, we had the
Lehman Brothers collapse.
In 2012, Obama, for the
first time since Reaganomics,
eliminated every
representative--
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan--
from his Economic Council.
In 2014, he said, we're
not printing more money.
There's not enough.
Or it's the world, or
it's the United States.
>>NOORY: But that's
going to happen again.
>>ESTULIN: And in 2016,
we had the elections,
and we had Brexit.
So what you're seeing--
again, the model is dead.
New model needs to be born.
And you're looking at
these global projects.
They're not countries.
It's not China against
the United States.
They're global projects,
which are working in tandem
to see which one
of these projects
has a better chance to survive.
>>NOORY: Daniel, how do you see
humanity in the next 10 years
merging together?
Is it going to happen?
>>ESTULIN: It depends on
which model ends up winning.
If the current
American administration
gets the upper hand, we're
going to cashless society.
We're going to Bitcoin.
We're going to cryptocurrency.
Are going to zeros and ones.
And then we're going
to transhumanist.
If the Chinese, Datun; if
they get the upper hand
with the Russians,
then what you have is
goal-based and supported
by the natural resources.
It's a different model.
It's difficult. There
are a lot of vectors
and a lot of options
and possibilities.
A lot is left to be
done over the next year.
Because this is the
time, more or less,
we have before the
system collapses.
And in this year, we need
to come up with a new model,
make it work, and
save the world.
>>NOORY: Where does artificial
intelligence fit into this?
>>ESTULIN: Artificial
intelligence
fits into the model of the
current administration.
Again, it's humanities,
transhumanities, post-humanity.
I talked about this in my
book, "TransEvolution--
A Coming Age of Human
Deconstruction,"
the capability of the
human mind from here
to the next generation or so.
There's a project
called Russia 2045.
We're going to be reaching
this point, as Ray Kurzweil,
said of synchronicity
between man and machine--
>>NOORY: Well, Ray
calls this very ominous.
>>RAY KURZWEIL: By
2020, we'll have
computers that are
powerful enough
to simulate the human brain.
But we won't be finished
yet with reverse-engineering
the human brain and
understanding its methods.
One of my main themes--
and I've developed this
thesis over 30 years--
is that information technology
grows exponentially.
The power of computers,
our understanding
of the human brain, the
spatial resolution of brain
scanning, the number of bits
we move around the internet--
I mean, many different measures
of information technology
double every one year,
every 11 months, 13 months,
depending on what
you're measuring.
So these technologies will be
a million times more powerful
within 20 years.
In fact, the speed
of exponential growth
is itself speeding up.
So in 25 years,
these technologies
will be a billion times more
powerful than they are today.
And we've already seen
that kind of progress.
When I was an
undergraduate, we all
shared a computer at MIT
that took up half a building.
The computer on your
cell phone today
is a million times cheaper
and 1,000 times more powerful.
That's a billion-fold
increase in price performance
of computing since I
was an undergraduate.
>>NOORY: Is it
really that scary?
>>ESTULIN: In the
last 50 years, we've
learned more than in the
entire history of mankind.
In the next 20, we're going
to learn more in the last 15
than the last--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ESTULIN: --human history.
>>NOORY: It
increases constantly.
>>ESTULIN: And we're
going to get to the point
where every 11 months
or so, as Kurzweil
said, we're gonna be doubling
the knowledge of humanity,
absolutely.
So one of the things he
said-- or he didn't say--
not in the clip, but he said it
many, many times-- by the year
2021, the capacity
of the computer
is going to equal the
capacity of human brain, which
means the cost of the brain
is going to be $1,000, which
is the price of a computer.
And by the year 2041 or
2050, depending how quickly
we get there, we're looking
at a billion times faster.
>>NOORY: That
sounds great to me.
>>ESTULIN: It is
to a certain point.
Because again, the
whole idea-- if you're
looking at it from the point
of view of the elite circles,
they don't need
six billion people.
They need to get rid
of most of humanity.
>>NOORY: They want
300 million, period.
>>ESTULIN: They need
whatever the number
that they need of
the golden billion,
as we say it in Russian.
They don't need more than that.
Because again, you
don't have enough.
Progress and
development of society
is directly proportional
to population density.
So if you're going
to have growth,
be it exponential or otherwise--
it could have more people,
more wealth--
but there's only so much food
and natural resources and water
on the planet Earth, which
means for the Rockefellers,
as an ideal--
not for the
Rockefellers, the man
who is now dead, but the
ideal of the elite to survive,
most of us have to die.
And this is the--
one of the key
questions I pose and try
to answer in my film on
the Bilderberg Group.
>>NOORY: Then, look into
your crystal ball, Daniel,
and give us some
hope for the future.
Will we, as mankind,
be the victors?
>>ESTULIN: I think we can be.
Because on the global
stage, the people
who had complete
control of society--
then again, we can
talk about democracy.
Democracy doesn't exist.
Now we're seeing
it for what it is.
>>NOORY: We think it exists.
>>ESTULIN: The mask
comes off, and you
have hardcore dictatorship.
But there's enough
people out there
at a certain level of power
who understand that today,
we have more of a
chance than ever.
Because the elitist circles,
whether they represent
one group or the
other, are weakened
as a result of this collapse--
of the systemic collapse
of the global system.
So this is our chance to
make something out of it.
>>NOORY: We have one chance.
>>ESTULIN: I think
we have one chance.
And we've got to
take care of it.
>>NOORY: Will we win?
>>ESTULIN: I hope so.
Which is, again,
going back to why I
decided to put my film on Gaia.
Because we need this
awareness, the level--
increase the level of
human consciousness
for people who
actually understand,
for the community of
people to work together
and improve the lives of
everybody per square kilometer
of space against nature.
Knowledge is power.
And it's one of the
reasons I want to make sure
that this kinds of programming
is as extensive as possible
in as many languages
as possible.
Because people around
the world, they
need to understand that
the world that they
see on television has very
little to do with reality.
>>NOORY: Good luck with
"Bilderberg the Movie."
>>ESTULIN: Thank you, sir.
>>NOORY: Daniel, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ESTULIN: Thank you so
much for having me, George.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing
story of a group called
the Bilderberg Group
that [? truly ?] wants
to control the entire planet.
But will they?
With people like Daniel Estulin
telling us what's going on,
I don't think they will.
I'm George Noory.
And this is "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]